---
layout: publication
title: "SAFE: Sharing-aware Prefetching for Efficient GPU Memory Management with Unified Virtual Memory"
image:
authors:
  - name: Hyunkyun Shin
  - name: Seongtae Bang
  - name: Hyungwon Park
  - name: Daehoon Kim
    corresponding: true
    
co-first: true
type: Paper
international: true
researches: [GPU, memory]
keywords:
  - GPU
  - Unified Virtual Memory
  - Prefetching
paper:
  year: 2025
  publisher: "IEEE Computer Architecture Letters"
  publisher-short: "CAL"
  publisher-type: Journal
doi: 10.1109/LCA.2025.3553143
sidebar:
  - title: Links
    items:
      - type: link
        text: IEEE Computer Architecture Letters, vol. 24, no. 1, pp. 117-120, Jan.-June 2025
        url: "https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/11049800"
        reveal: true
components: [abstract, keywords, topics]
hidden: false
---

As the demand for GPU memory from applications such as machine learning continues to grow exponentially, maximizing GPU memory capacity has become increasingly important. Unified Virtual Memory (UVM), which combines host and GPU memory into a unified address space, allows GPUs to utilize more memory than their physical capacity. However, this advantage comes at the cost of significant overheads when accessing host memory. Although existing prefetching techniques help alleviate these overheads, they still encounter challenges when dealing with irregular workloads and dynamic mixed workloads. In this paper, we demonstrate that the regularity of workloads is strongly correlated with the sharing status of UVM memory blocks among the Streaming Multiprocessors (SMs) of GPUs, which in turn impacts the effectiveness of prefetching. In addition, we propose the Sharing Aware preFEtching technique, SAFE, which dynamically adjusts prefetching strategies based on the sharing status of the accessed memory blocks. SAFE efficiently tracks the sharing status of the memory blocks by leveraging unified TLBs (uTLBs) and enforces tailored prefetching configurations for each block. This approach requires no hardware modifications and incurs negligible performance overhead. Our evaluation shows that SAFE achieves up to a 6.5× performance improvement over UVM default prefetcher for workloads with predominantly irregular memory access patterns, with an average improvement of 3.6×.
