---
layout: post
title: Next-Generation Memory Systems & Architecture
image: /research/images/tiering.png
authors: Minho Kim
publication-dois: 
---

We are committed to advancing memory technologies and their associated architectural solutions. A key focus of our work is the development of holistic, disaggregated memory management solutions optimized for memory-centric computing paradigms. By addressing the challenges of distributed memory resources, we aim to design cohesive strategies that ensure efficient memory utilization and seamless data access across interconnected memory units. Additionally, we are innovating Compute Express Link (CXL)-based multi-tiered memory systems for memory-intensive applications. By integrating CXL technology, we aim to create tiered memory architectures that combine high-speed and high-capacity memory units to meet the demands of data-intensive workloads. Our research also enhances the CXL hardware architecture, focusing on accommodating hardware extensions. By designing flexible and extensible hardware frameworks, we seek to integrate novel memory technologies in a way that supports future scalability and innovation. Furthermore, we are exploring heterogeneous memory management, employing techniques such as memory deduplication and compression. These methods aim to optimize memory utilization by reducing redundancy and maximizing the effective capacity of memory resources. Our objective is to shape the future of memory systems and architectures by providing innovative solutions that empower memory-intensive computing, enable efficient data processing, and pave the way for more sophisticated and capable memory technologies.
